# A history lesson to explain balancers unique approach to the ve-tokenomics.
The evolution of VE(vested escrow) tokenomics is at its core about locked governance tokens that control inflationary emissions and votes that can be bought on an open market.  veBAL builds on these learnings, and continues to evolve through governance to adopt good ideas that appear in the ve space and to add our own concepts.


## veBAL meets veCRV - Locker and Meta-governance

veCRV demonstrated the combination of the following concepts reasonably early in the evolution of DeFi:
 - A decaying, long term (4 year max),  EOA only lock that decays in power over time and must be regularly max locked to maintain optimal governance efficiency.
 - Locker based DAO governance to determined emissions based on a long term fixed schedule.
   - Lockers decide what pools can have "gauges" which are able to receive rewards.
   - Lockers decide how to allocate rewards between gauges based on a weekly epoch and onchain voting.
 - Yield boosts based on governance weight.
 - Protocol fees paid out to lockers to incentive them to make good voting decisions that increase protocol revenue.

The net result of this was that most veBAL was held by the Curve team, and Yearn, who for a long time was the only DAO given a whitelist allowing them to lock and manage veCRV in a smart contract.  Eventually, to try to further decentralize and grow their economy. Convex was born and given a whitelist.  Around this time, the following additional concepts came into the ve-soup.
 - Meta-goverance protocols to help DAOs and token holders better manage the system and/or particpate with less lock-in.
 - Vote Markets aka Bribe Economies where those interested in generating rewards on their pools pay voters who have votes no strong preferences about where incentives should go.

The veCRV protocol has been successful for Curve in a number of ways.  One interesting effect of meta-governance and vote markets is that non-dao investors have a good reason to hold these tokens for their potential returns/yields.  Further, they are generally more incentivized to vote for pools based on vote incentives than due to the fact that it generates healthy revenue for the protocol.

veBAL was originally based on the Curve/Convex system.  veBAL itself was a fork of veBAL, with only minor changes made to the emissions schedule.  **FACT CHECK: Is this true, other changes?** 
Aura, the Balancer Ecosystem equivalent to Convex, was conceived around the same time, and launched soon after veBAL.  
## veBAL meets ve(3,3) - Core Pools 
Around the time the Curve/Convex wars really came into full swing, Andre Cronje developed and released Solidly.  Solidly was based on new AMM tech, and also included an new ve system called ve(3,3).  Solidly was a short-lived experiment, but the AMM logic and the ve concepts lived on through what is over 25 forks at the time of this writing.   Velodrome is currently the biggest 3,3 fork.  You can learn more about solidly style tokenomics [here](https://docs.velodrome.finance/tokenomics).

ve(3,3) introduced the following new concepts:
 - Locks are expressed as veNFT, which can be joined and transferred.
 - veNFT lockers receive inflationary rewards (also locked), taking from the (3,3) concept that Olympus DAO had made popular at the time.
 - Internal vote market built into the core protocol.
   - 100% of all trade fees are paid out as bribes for the pool that generated them, meaning that LPs earn governance token emissions, but the rate of these emissions is highly infuenced by the revenue generated by the pool.

[Balancers Core Pools](https://forum.balancer.fi/t/bip-19-incentivize-core-pools-l2-usage/3329) program takes from some fee handling ideas playbook, by paying out 65% of the rewards due to veBAL lockers in the form of vote market incentives instead of direct emissions.  Note that as of the time of this writing, this core pools fee flow is only available pending approval from governance.   Approval is generally based on pools meeting certain parameters.

## veBAL meets Balancer - Capped Gauges
Curve started off as a stableswap protocol that generally charged low fees and offered low slippage.  For the most part, Curve governance focuses on reasonably large and established protocols or those that are somehow building on top of the curve ecosystem.

Balancer on the other hand has always been a protocol offering a wide array of LP options to anyone who wanted to use them.  It is the goal of Balancer to be an innovation ground, and to help small protocols grow and find market fit.  For this reason, it is important that our gauge governance is more permissive and open than Curve.

As a result of very low mcap protocols being allowed to have gauges, situations arose where veBAL mega-whales were buying up most of a small liquidity token, capturing most of the LP in the pool, and then voting for said pool with sometimes more than 25% of all of veBAL.
This behavor resulted in far too many emissions flowing to pools that generated no revenue, and far too much of the inflation flowing to users who demonstrated behavior that was not healthy for the ecosystem in the long term.

As a result, balancer implemented the concept of Gauge weight caps and the [Gauge Weight Framework](https://forum.balancer.fi/t/bip-57-introduce-gauge-framework-v1/3604).  veBAL gauges can be capped with a maximum % of the total veBAL emissions they will distribute at a given time.  The gauge framework defines that pools that have low market cap, should be capped at 2% of veBAL unless the pool is one of the top revenue generators.  It further suggests that pools which have unbalanced weights (such as 80/20) that offer less capital efficiency require more AUM to meet the threshold.

Note that over time, the gauge framework has not always been strictly followed.  In some edge cases protocols asked for/agreed to accept 10% caps.  In other cases protocols accepted 2% caps as they didn't expect they would need more for some time.  In general the process about gauge caps is a conversation with governance, that should be held in the forum, that is guided but not bound by the gauge framework.  Balancer Governance remains open approving new gauges with increased caps as history of a pool demonstrates they make sense.

